---
title: "[原创]codeforces 714C Sonya and Queries [思维]【STL】"
date: 2016-09-14 14:25:00
description:
toc: true
author: tabris
# 图片推荐使用图床(腾讯云、七牛云、又拍云等)来做图片的路径.如:http://xxx.com/xxx.jpg
img:
# 如果top值为true，则会是首页推荐文章
top: false
# 如果要对文章设置阅读验证密码的话，就可以在设置password的值，该值必须是用SHA256加密后的密码，防止被他人识破
password:
# 本文章是否开启mathjax，且需要在主题的_config.yml文件中也需要开启才行
mathjax: true
summary: ""
categories: [CSDN, STL ,codeforces]
tags: [CSDN,codeforces,stl]
key: key78609410-55b6-4e72-a4af-6f768f004f46
---

题目链接:http://codeforces.com/contest/714/problem/C

-------------------------------------.
C. Sonya and Queries
time limit per test1 second
memory limit per test256 megabytes
inputstandard input
outputstandard output
Today Sonya learned about long integers and invited all her friends to share the fun. Sonya has an initially empty multiset with integers. Friends give her t queries, each of one of the following type:

 +  ai — add non-negative integer ai to the multiset. Note, that she has a multiset, thus there may be many occurrences of the same integer.
 -  ai — delete a single occurrence of non-negative integer ai from the multiset. It's guaranteed, that there is at least one ai in the multiset.
? s — count the number of integers in the multiset (with repetitions) that match some pattern s consisting of 0 and 1. In the pattern, 0 stands for the even digits, while 1 stands for the odd. Integer x matches the pattern s, if the parity of the i-th from the right digit in decimal notation matches the i-th from the right digit of the pattern. If the pattern is shorter than this integer, it's supplemented with 0-s from the left. Similarly, if the integer is shorter than the pattern its decimal notation is supplemented with the 0-s from the left.
For example, if the pattern is s = 010, than integers 92, 2212, 50 and 414 match the pattern, while integers 3, 110, 25 and 1030 do not.

Input
The first line of the input contains an integer t (1 ≤ t ≤ 100 000) — the number of operation Sonya has to perform.

Next t lines provide the descriptions of the queries in order they appear in the input file. The i-th row starts with a character ci — the type of the corresponding operation. If ci is equal to '+' or '-' then it's followed by a space and an integer ai (0 ≤ ai < 1018) given without leading zeroes (unless it's 0). If ci equals '?' then it's followed by a space and a sequence of zeroes and onse, giving the pattern of length no more than 18.

It's guaranteed that there will be at least one query of type '?'.

It's guaranteed that any time some integer is removed from the multiset, there will be at least one occurrence of this integer in it.

Output
For each query of the third type print the number of integers matching the given pattern. Each integer is counted as many times, as it appears in the multiset at this moment of time.

Examples
input
12
+ 1
+ 241
? 1
+ 361
- 241
? 0101
+ 101
? 101
- 101
? 101
+ 4000
? 0
output
2
1
2
1
1
input
4
+ 200
+ 200
- 200
? 0
output
1
Note
Consider the integers matching the patterns from the queries of the third type. Queries are numbered in the order they appear in the input.

1 and 241.
361.
101 and 361.
361.
4000.
-----------------------------------.
题目大意：（懂不懂题目的我眼泪掉下来~~~）
就是有一个multiset 这么一个容器
有三种操作
+ a 把a加入multiset
 - a 把a删除multiset
？s 寻找s是一个<=18位的省去了前导0的二进制数, 然后求当前multiset中每位%2后等于s的数的个数


解题思路 ：
就是维护一个map
映射的事这个状态下的个数
然后就能在O（18n）的复杂度中求解出来了


附本题代码
----------------------------.
```
# include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

# define LL long long int
# define INF 0x1f1f1f1f
# define pb push_back

# define lalal puts("*******");
/*************************************/

const int MOD = 1e9+7;
const int M = 1e5+10;

map<LL,int>b;
int main()
{
    ios::sync_with_stdio(false);
    int t;
    while(cin>>t)
    {
        b.clear();
        LL tem ,x,a,bit;
        char c;
        for(int i=0; i<t; i++)
        {
            cin>>c>>a;
            tem = a,x = 0,bit=0;
            while(tem)
            {
                if(tem%10%2)    x  |=  (1<<bit);
                tem/=10;
                bit++;
            }
            if(c=='+') b[x]++;
            if(c=='-') b[x]--;

            if(c=='?') cout<<b[x]<<endl;
        }
    }
    return 0;
}

```
