---
title: <原>#  HDU 1536 S-Nim [SG函数]【博弈】
date: 2016-07-30 16:38:04
description:
toc: true
author: tabris
# 图片推荐使用图床(腾讯云、七牛云、又拍云等)来做图片的路径.如:http://xxx.com/xxx.jpg
img: 
# 如果top值为true，则会是首页推荐文章
top: false
# 如果要对文章设置阅读验证密码的话，就可以在设置password的值，该值必须是用SHA256加密后的密码，防止被他人识破
password: 
# 本文章是否开启mathjax，且需要在主题的_config.yml文件中也需要开启才行
mathjax: false
summary: 这是你自定义的文章摘要内容，如果这个属性有值，文章卡片摘要就显示这段文字，否则程序会自动截取文章的部分内容作为摘要
categories: OJ算法题
tags:
  - SG函数
  - 数学
  - 博弈

---




#  HDU 1536 S-Nim [SG函数]【博弈】

2016年07月30日 16:38:04  [ Tabris_ ](https://me.csdn.net/qq_33184171) 阅读数：386
标签：  [ SG函数 ](https://so.csdn.net/so/search/s.do?q=SG函数&t=blog)

个人分类：  [ 数学 ](https://blog.csdn.net/qq_33184171/article/category/6162724) [
===== 博弈 ===== ](https://blog.csdn.net/qq_33184171/article/category/6117381)


--- 
 博客爬取于`2019-04-18 17:20:14`
***以下为正文***

版权声明：本文为Tabris原创文章，未经博主允许不得私自转载。
https://blog.csdn.net/qq_33184171/article/details/52073496

题目连接 ： [ http://acm.hdu.edu.cn/showproblem.php?pid=1536
](http://acm.hdu.edu.cn/showproblem.php?pid=1536)

——————————————.

S-Nim

Time Limit: 5000/1000 MS (Java/Others) Memory Limit: 65536/32768 K
(Java/Others)  
Total Submission(s): 6629 Accepted Submission(s): 2802

Problem Description  
Arthur and his sister Caroll have been playing a game called Nim for some time
now. Nim is played as follows:

The starting position has a number of heaps, all containing some, not
necessarily equal, number of beads.

The players take turns chosing a heap and removing a positive number of beads
from it.

The first player not able to make a move, loses.

Arthur and Caroll really enjoyed playing this simple game until they recently
learned an easy way to always be able to find the best move:

Xor the number of beads in the heaps in the current position (i.e. if we have
2, 4 and 7 the xor-sum will be 1 as 2 xor 4 xor 7 = 1).

If the xor-sum is 0, too bad, you will lose.

Otherwise, move such that the xor-sum becomes 0. This is always possible.

It is quite easy to convince oneself that this works. Consider these facts:

The player that takes the last bead wins.

After the winning player’s last move the xor-sum will be 0.

The xor-sum will change after every move.

Which means that if you make sure that the xor-sum always is 0 when you have
made your move, your opponent will never be able to win, and, thus, you will
win.

Understandibly it is no fun to play a game when both players know how to play
perfectly (ignorance is bliss). Fourtunately, Arthur and Caroll soon came up
with a similar game, S-Nim, that seemed to solve this problem. Each player is
now only allowed to remove a number of beads in some predefined set S, e.g. if
we have S =(2, 5) each player is only allowed to remove 2 or 5 beads. Now it
is not always possible to make the xor-sum 0 and, thus, the strategy above is
useless. Or is it?

your job is to write a program that determines if a position of S-Nim is a
losing or a winning position. A position is a winning position if there is at
least one move to a losing position. A position is a losing position if there
are no moves to a losing position. This means, as expected, that a position
with no legal moves is a losing position.

Input  
Input consists of a number of test cases. For each test case: The first line
contains a number k (0 < k ≤ 100 describing the size of S, followed by k
numbers si (0 < si ≤ 10000) describing S. The second line contains a number m
(0 < m ≤ 100) describing the number of positions to evaluate. The next m lines
each contain a number l (0 < l ≤ 100) describing the number of heaps and l
numbers hi (0 ≤ hi ≤ 10000) describing the number of beads in the heaps. The
last test case is followed by a 0 on a line of its own.

Output  
For each position: If the described position is a winning position print a
‘W’.If the described position is a losing position print an ‘L’. Print a
newline after each test case.

Sample Input  
2 2 5  
3  
2 5 12  
3 2 4 7  
4 2 3 7 12  
5 1 2 3 4 5  
3  
2 5 12  
3 2 4 7  
4 2 3 7 12  
0

Sample Output  
LWW  
WWL

Source  
Norgesmesterskapet 2004

——————————————————-.

题目大意 :  
就是多个 有多个堆的取石子游戏，只有N种取法 ，问先手输或者赢。

解题思路 : 很明显的SG函数问题 通过每次给你的N种取法 把SG值求出来然后看最后异或值是否为0就行了额

！！！！！！！！！！注意的是  
计算sg函数的时候 最开始我h[]数组开的是10008,这样的结果就是无限的TLE  
后来发现 取法有N种 那么i-s[]最多也只有N种 那么我h[]只要开 N 这么大就完全够了 以前怎么也想不明白 但是现在想明白了。。 只有这样才不会在
预处理的时候发生超时

附本题代码  
———————–.

    
    
    #include<bits/stdc++.h>
    
    using namespace std;
    
    #define mem(a,b,c)  for(int i=0;i<(c);i++)a[i]=(b);
    #define lalal puts("******");
    const int M = 10008;
    const int N = 108;
    
    int s[N];
    int sg[M];
    int h[N];
    
    void getSG(int t)
    {
        sg[0]=0;
        for(int i=1; i<10001; i++)
        {
            memset(h,0,sizeof(h));
    
            for(int j=0; j<t&&i>=s[j]; j++)
                if(i-s[j]>=0)
                    h[sg[i-s[j]]]=1;
    
            for(int j=0; j<10001; j++)
                if(!h[j])
                {
                    sg[i]=j;
                    break;
                }
        }
        return ;
    }
    
    
    int main()
    {
        int k;
        while(~scanf("%d",&k)&&k)
        {
            for(int i=0; i<k; i++)
                scanf("%d",&s[i]);
            sort(s,s+k);
            getSG(k);
    
            int _;
            scanf("%d",&_);
            while(_--)
            {
                int n, x, ans = 0;
                scanf("%d",&n);
                for(int i=0;i<n;i++)
                {
                    scanf("%d",&x);
                    ans^=sg[x];
                }
                if(ans) printf("W");
                else    printf("L");
            }
            puts("");
        }
        return 0;
    }
    
    
    
    
    
    

